---
layout: default
title:  mrflip.github.com/wukong
collapse: false
---
h1(gemheader). wukong %(small):: hadoop made easy%


p(description). {{ site.description }}


Treat your dataset like a
* stream of lines when it's efficient to process by lines
* stream of field arrays when it's efficient to deal directly with fields
* stream of lightweight objects when it's efficient to deal with objects

Wukong is friends with "Hadoop":http://hadoop.apache.org/core the elephant, "Pig":http://hadoop.apache.org/pig/ the query language, and the @cat@ on your command line.

h2. Help index

* "Install and set up wukong":INSTALL.html
* "Tutorial":README-tutorial.html
* "Usage notes":usage.html
usage.textile:h2(#running).        How to run a Wukong script
usage.textile:h2(#testing).        How to test your scripts
usage.textile:h2(#playnice).       Plays nicely with others
usage.textile:h3(#schema_export).  Schema export
usage.textile:h3(#stayinruby).     Using wukong with internal streaming
usage.textile:h3(#activerecord).   Using wukong to Batch-Process ActiveRecord Objects

* Wutils -- command-line utilies for working with data from the command line
** "overview of wutils":README-wutils.html#wutils
** "Stupid command-line tricks":README-wutils.html#cmdlinetricks using the wutils
** "docs for the wu-lign command":README-wulign.html
** Dear Lazyweb, please build this for us: "tab-oriented version of the Textutils library":README-wutils.html#wutilsinc
* Links and tips for "configuring and working with hadoop":hadoop-tips.html
* Some opinionated "thoughts on working with big data,":bigdata-tips.html on why you should drop acid, treat exceptions as records, and happily embrace variable-length strings as primary keys.
* Wukong is licensed under the "Apache License":LICENSE.html (same as Hadoop)
* "More info":moreinfo.html

* Work in progress: an intro to data processing with wukong:
** "Part 1, Get Ready":UsingWukong-part1-getready.html
** "Part 2, Thinking Big Data":UsingWukong-part2-ThinkingBigData.html
** "Part 3, Parsing":UsingWukong-part3-parsing.html


There is still some documentation on the "wukong wiki":http://github.com/mrflip/wukong/wikis

Please forgive the major disorganized / duplication of the wukong documentation -- we're consolidating into the single gh-pages site within the repo and still fleshing out the tutorials.  The actual best source of documentation are the "many working examples":http://github.com/mrflip/wukong/tree/master/examples

<notextile><div id="intro" class="toggle"></notextile>

{% include intro.textile %}

<notextile></div><div class="toggle"></notextile>

h2. More info

There are many useful examples (including an actually-useful version of the WordCount script) in examples/ directory.

h3. Credits

Wukong was written by Philip (flip) Kromer (flip@infochimps.org) for the "infochimps project":http://infochimps.org

Patches submitted by:
* gemified by Ben Woosley (ben.woosley@gmail.com)
* ruby interpreter path fix by "Yuichiro MASUI":http://github.com/masuidrive - masui@masuidrive.jp - http://blog.masuidrive.jp/

Thanks to:
* "Brad Heintz": for his early feedback
* "Phil Ripperger":http://blog.pdatasolutions.com for his "wukong in the Amazon AWS cloud":http://blog.pdatasolutions.com/post/191978092/ruby-on-hadoop-quickstart tutorial.

<notextile></div></notextile>

{% include news.html %}
