---
layout: default
title:  Usage notes
---

h1(gemheader). {{ site.gemname }} %(small):: usage%


<div class="toggle">

h2. How to run a Wukong script

To run your script using local files and no connection to a hadoop cluster,

pre. your/script.rb --run=local path/to/input_files path/to/output_dir

To run the command across a Hadoop cluster,

pre. your/script.rb --run=hadoop path/to/input_files path/to/output_dir

You can set the default in the config/wukong-site.yaml file, and then just use @--run@ instead of @--run=something@ --it will just use the default run mode.

If you're running @--run=hadoop@, all file paths are HDFS paths. If you're running @--run=local@, all file paths are local paths.  (your/script path, of course, lives on the local filesystem).

You can supply arbitrary command line arguments (they wind up as key-value pairs in the options path your mapper and reducer receive), and you can use the hadoop syntax to specify more than one input file:

pre. ./path/to/your/script.rb --any_specific_options --options=can_have_vals \
   --run "input_dir/part_*,input_file2.tsv,etc.tsv" path/to/output_dir

Note that all @--options@ must precede (in any order) all non-options.

</div><div class="toggle">

h2. How to test your scripts

To run mapper on its own:

pre. cat ./local/test/input.tsv | ./examples/word_count.rb --map | more

or if your test data lies on the HDFS,

pre. hdp-cat test/input.tsv | ./examples/word_count.rb --map | more

Next graduate to running @--run=local@ mode so you can inspect the reducer.

</div><div class="toggle">

h2. What tools does Wukong work with?

Wukong is friends with "Hadoop":http://hadoop.apache.org/core the elephant, "Pig":http://hadoop.apache.org/pig/ the query language, and the @cat@ on your command line.  We're looking forward to being friends with "martinis":http://datamapper.org and "express trains":http://wiki.rubyonrails.org/rails/pages/ActiveRecord down the road.

</div><div class="toggle">

h2. Design


Here's a somewhat detailed overview of a wukong script's internal workflow.

# You call ./myscript.rb --run infile outfile
# Execution begins in the run method of the Script class (wukong/script.rb). It launches (depending on if you're local or remote) one of
** cat infile | ./myscript.rb --map | sort | ./myscript.rb --reduce > outfile
** hadoop [a_crapton_of_streaming_args] -mapper './myscript.rb --map' -reducer './myscript.rb --reduce' 
# In either case, the effect is to spawn the exact same script you ran at the command line: one or more times with the --map command in place of the --run command, and one or more times with the --reduce command in place of the --run command. (*)
# With the --map or --reduce flag given, the Script flag turns over control to the corresponding class: for instance,
** mapper_klass.new(self.options).stream

When in --map or --reduce mode (we'll just use --map as an example):

# The mapper_klass is usually a subclass of Streamer::Base, but in actual fact it can be anything that initializes from a hash of options and responds to #stream.
# The default #stream method
** calls the before_stream hook
** reads each line from stdin ; #recordizes it ; passes it (if non-nil) to #process ; and emits each object yielded by #process
** calls its after_stream hook
# You typically leave #stream alone and just override #process.
# The accumulator classes build on these patterns (they're proper subclasses of Streamer::Base), but are used differently. With an accumulator, you should implement some or all of
** #start! -- called at the start of each accumulation, passing in the first record for that key
** #accumulate -- called on each record (including that first one)
** #finalize --  called when the last key of this accumulation is seen.
** #get_key -- called on each record to recover its key.

(*) Of course, if you have no reducers then that's zero or more times; and if you change the :map_command or :reduce_command options then that runs instead.

h3. Using wukong with internal streaming

If you're using wukong in local mode, you may not want to spawn new processes all over the place.  Or your records may arrive not from the command line but from, say, a database call. 

In that case, just override #stream.  The original:

      #
      # Pass each record to +#process+
      #
      def stream
        before_stream
        $stdin.each do |line|
          record = recordize(line.chomp)
          next unless record
          process(*record) do |output_record|
            emit output_record
          end
        end
        after_stream
      end

Here's a stream method, overridden to batch-process ActiveRecord objects (untested sample code):

      # Set record_klass to the ActiveRecord class you'd like to batch process
      cattr_accessor :record_klass
      # Size of each batch to pull from the database
      cattr_accessor :batch_size
      
      #
      # Pass each record to +#process+
      #
      def stream
        before_stream
        record_klass.find_in_batches(:batch_size => batch_size ) do |record_batch|
          record_batch.each do |record|
            process(record.id, record) do |output_record|
              emit output_record
            end
          end
        end
        after_stream
      end


</div><div class="toggle">

h2. Caveats

...

</div><div class="toggle">

h2. TODOs

...

</div><div class="toggle">

h2. Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but  bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

</div><div class="toggle">

h2. Endnotes


h3. Why is it called Wukong?

Hadoop, as you may know, is "named after a stuffed elephant.":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hadoop Since Wukong was started by the "infochimps":http://infochimps.org team, we needed a simian analog.  A Monkey King who journeyed to the land of the Elephant seems to fit the bill:

bq. Sun Wukong (孙悟空), known in the West as the Monkey King, is the main character in the classical Chinese epic novel Journey to the West. In the novel, he accompanies the monk Xuanzang on the journey to retrieve Buddhist sutras from India.

bq. Sun Wukong possesses incredible strength, being able to lift his 13,500 jīn (8,100 kg) Ruyi Jingu Bang with ease. He also has superb speed, traveling 108,000 li (54,000 kilometers) in one somersault. Sun knows 72 transformations, which allows him to transform into various animals and objects; he is, however, shown with slight problems transforming into other people, since he is unable to complete the transformation of his tail. He is a skilled fighter, capable of holding his own against the best generals of heaven. Each of his hairs possesses magical properties, and is capable of transforming into a clone of the Monkey King himself, or various weapons, animals, and other objects. He also knows various spells in order to command wind, part water, conjure protective circles against demons, freeze humans, demons, and gods alike. -- ["Sun Wukong's Wikipedia entry":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wukong]

The "Jaime Hewlett / Damon Albarn short":http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/olympics/monkey that the BBC made for their 2008 Olympics coverage gives the general idea.


* What's up with Wukong::AndPig?
** @Wukong::AndPig@ is a small library to more easily generate code for the "Pig":http://hadoop.apache.org/pig data analysis language.  See its "README":wukong/and_pig/README.textile for more.



</div>

